Use Alpha and Beta for our prerelease tags instead of dev and preview for all languages (#1536)
Azure/azure-sdk: docs/policies/releases.md

## Package Versioning

The team makes every effort to follow [SemVer](https://semver.org/) for versioning. Because different languages have slightly different conventions for numbering, the way that beta releases are designated varies. In a nutshell, SemVer is defined as `Major.Minor.Patch`, where

- Changes to the major digit (1.X.Y to 2.X.Y) indicate that breaking changes have been introduced. Breaking changes are exceptional and require review and approval by the architecture board.
- Increments to the minor digit (1.1.X to 1.2.X) indicate the addition of new apis or features.
- Increments to the patch number (1.1.1 to 1.1.2) indicate a set of new compatible fixes.

In addition to standard SemVer, the team occasionally releases a beta version of a package to allow the community to dog food and give feedback on new features.

- Beta: A release generated to get customer feedback before a GA. Beta releases are revised less often than dev. Beta releases may have breaking changes from the previous beta, but should not have breaking changes from the last GA release. Once a package has released to GA, any breaking changes require an exception and approval from the architecture board.

> - Dev: A release generated to give customers early access to our most up-to-date changes. Customers should not take production dependencies on these as they are volatile and will break often. They should only be used to temporarily unblock issues or to get a early read on the upcomming releases.

Author: I'm torn about changing Dev to alpha everywhere as I still would like to make the distinction that the alpha/dev is a unique versioning train. Similar to why you requested we stick with the npm "dev" tag instead of switching it to "alpha" it helps convey the message that they are intended to be developer versions only for testing.

>The point on production dependencies due to volatility applies to both alpha and beta, but is listed only for the former

I mostly want to call out that alpha/dev versions are more volatile then the beta versions. I will add a note to that effect.

I can reorder them these or update the text so the context is a little clearer.

## Package Versioning

The team makes every effort to follow [SemVer](https://semver.org/) for versioning. In a nutshell, SemVer is defined as `Major.Minor.Patch`, where:

- Changes to the major digit (1.X.Y to 2.X.Y) indicate that breaking changes have been introduced. Breaking changes are exceptional and require review and approval by the architecture board.
- Increments to the minor digit (1.1.X to 1.2.X) indicate the addition of new apis or features.
- Increments to the patch number (1.1.1 to 1.1.2) indicate a set of new compatible fixes.

In addition to the stable GA releases the team also has prereleases of a package to allow the community to try new features early and give feedback.

> - Alpha releases are sometimes referred to as dev releases and use a prerelease label that contains a date stamp similar to `-alpha-YYYYMMDD.r` to ensure the versions are unique as they will often be published daily. These are often published to an isolated registry depending on the language ecosystem. These releases are based on the latest committed code changes and should not be used for production dependencies. They are very volatile and change from version-to-version and thus are mostly useful to temporarily working around an issue or testing out the latest library changes. 

Reviewer: Nit: I recommend breaking up sentences for an easier read
```suggestion
- Alpha releases are sometimes referred to as dev releases and use a prerelease label that contains a date stamp similar to `-alpha-YYYYMMDD.r`. This ensures the versions are unique as they are published daily. These are often published to an isolated registry depending on the language ecosystem. These releases are based on the latest committed code changes and should not be used for production dependencies. They are very volatile and change from version-to-version. These are mostly useful to temporarily working around an issue or testing out the latest library changes. 
```

> - Beta releases use a prerelease label like `-beta.X` and are published to the most common public registry for each language ecosystem. These releases are less volatile and released less often then alpha releases and are usually used before releasing a new minor or major GA release. Beta releases may have breaking changes from the previous beta but should not have breaking changes from the last GA release. Once a package has released to GA, any breaking changes require an exception and approval from the architecture board.

Reviewer: Nit: Breaking up sentences for an easier read:

```suggestion
- Beta releases use a prerelease label like `-beta.X` and are published to the most common public registry for each language ecosystem. These releases are less volatile and released less often then alpha releases. These are usually used before releasing a new minor or major GA release. Beta releases may have breaking changes from the previous beta but should not have breaking changes from the last GA release. Once a package has released to GA, any breaking changes require an exception and approval from the architecture board.
```

| Python | [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-analyzed-blue.svg)](https://azuresdkartifacts.blob.core.windows.net/azure-sdk-for-python/dependencies/dependencies.html) |
| .NET | [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-analyzed-blue.svg)](https://azuresdkartifacts.blob.core.windows.net/azure-sdk-for-net/dependencies/dependencies.html) |

Packages which depend on beta versions should pin specifically to the beta version on which they depend because beta releases may contain breaking changes.

> Avoid source dependencies in projects and only use binary/package dependencies. If a package under development needs to incorporate changes from a package upon which it depends then it should use the dev version of that package. That is, if Project B incorporates changes to Project A then Project B should consume the _Package_ from Project A that is released in the dev feed.

Author: I've been either removing the word nightly or changing it to daily depending on the context.  In this context I didn't feel like the fact it was done daily added any value.

| Python | [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-analyzed-blue.svg)](https://azuresdkartifacts.blob.core.windows.net/azure-sdk-for-python/dependencies/dependencies.html) |
| .NET | [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/badge/dependencies-analyzed-blue.svg)](https://azuresdkartifacts.blob.core.windows.net/azure-sdk-for-net/dependencies/dependencies.html) |

Packages which depend on beta versions should pin specifically to the beta version on which they depend because beta releases may contain breaking changes.

> Avoid source dependencies in projects and only use binary/package dependencies. If a package under development needs to incorporate changes from a package upon which it depends then it should use the alpha version of that package. That is, if Project B incorporates changes to Project A then Project B should consume the _Package_ from Project A that is released as alpha to the dev feed.

Reviewer: >  If a package under development needs to incorporate changes from a package upon which it depends then it should use the alpha version of that package. That is, if Project B incorporates changes to Project A then Project B should consume the _Package_ from Project A that is released as alpha to the dev feed.

Who is this advice for? Are both Project A & B packages that we are working on? In JS, I dont see a scenario where we need to use the alpha version of another package.

Author: I think this guidance is a little outdated. I will update it because I agree there are not any scenarios were we would have checked in alpha dependency versions in the repo. The main idea was to try and avoid having source level dependencies because it becomes challenging as you have to build everything and it becomes too easy to depend on new features accidently. This is part of the reason we added the min/max testing in all the languages to help notify us when we are in this situation. The primary goal is to make sure our dependency versions (or ranges) are correct and that we ship all the necessary dependencies in the correct order, especially if you depend on new features.

- GA releases will follow [SemVer](https://semver.org/) and the published package should have the tag `latest`.
  - If a hotfix is being shipped for a version older than the current GA version, then ensure that the hotfix gets no tags.  One way to do this is to use a dummy tag when publishing and deleting the tag afterwards.
  - If a package has moved from beta to GA, ensure that the `next` tag is deleted.
- Beta releases will use the format `X.Y.Z-beta.N` for version and the published package should have the tag `next`.
  - Additionally, use the `latest` tag **only** if the package has never had a GA release.

> - Daily dev releases will use the format `X.Y.Z-alpha.YYYYMMDD.r` (`r` is based on the number of builds performed on the given day) and the published package will have the tag `dev` and published to npm. To consume a dev package either pin to a specific version or use the `dev` tag as the version to avoid crossing packages with other beta packages. You can also use a version range similar to `X.Y.Z-alpha - X.Y.Z-beta` to get the latest dev release and avoid the beta release versions.

Reviewer: > use the `dev` tag as the version to avoid crossing packages with other beta packages

This is not clear to me. What are we trying to avoid here...?

> You can also use a version range similar to `X.Y.Z-alpha - X.Y.Z-beta` to get the latest dev release and avoid the beta release versions

What is a scenario where this would be helpful?

Generally, can we avoid the entire new text that is being added here? We can make the assumption that the user knows how to use semver and how to specify the dependency ranges in their package.json file.

Author: alpha/dev versions are not always earlier then the beta versions as they are two different versioning trains and so generally if you want to be on the alpha/dev version then you want to say on that train and not accidently start picking up beta versions. To do that you either need to use the `dev` tag or use the version range specifier. The reason I put the version range specifier directly here is because it is not a normal case folks would do and I wanted people to have an example based on our versioning guidelines.

Reviewer 2: I also don't think we need to expand here, as I don't believe folks tend to use ranges with pre-release versions. Especially since both alpha and beta packages of ours can have breaking changes, rolling forward automatically would always be a bad idea.

I'm also a little confused as to who this text is targeted at. Internally, we **always** pin pre-release dependencies to exact versions when we must use them.

Reviewer: `dev` tag information is fine, it does not add any ambiguity. I would remove the part on the range.
